Episode 08
Fang Wanzhi!
Your letter!
Just a second!
Thank you.
Have some of these!
(I've received many letters)
(from Shenxian Peak.)
(They're probably asking for favors.)
(I didn't forward them.)
(But this one says it's
from your nephew)
(and is marked urgent,)
(so I sent it to you.)
(Best wishes.)
(Stay safe and sound.)
(Wang Jia)
(Dear Auntie Wanzhi,)
(I have no other choice)
(but to write to you.)
(I really need your help.)
Dad,
they're recruiting for the Air Force.
Becoming a pilot
is my lifelong dream.
And during my physical exam,
I heard the doctor
tell the militia officials
that my physical condition
fully meets the standards.
Still no.
You want to fly to the sky?
Fix the problems
down here on the ground first.
What problems down here?
We have debts.
You need to work and pay them off.
If I weren't lame,
I wouldn't ask you.
If your mom weren't sick
and hadn't failed her checkup,
I'd even make her sell blood.
Haven't you seen the creditors
coming every single day?
If we don't pay them soon,
they'll move
into our new house.
Dad,
this pilot selection means
everything to me.
This could be my career for life.
Son,
just figure out when
you can pay off the debts first.
If only you weren't born
into a poor family like ours.
If only your mom
were normal like others.
You're not meant to reach for the sky.
Just drop the idea.
Pack your bags right now
and go find work.
Dad!
Mom!
(Three months ago, my dad)
(went to work in town)
(and got hit by a rock on the leg.)
(The doctor said he
might be disabled for life.)
(He can't work away from home anymore,)
(so he's forcing me.)
(But I really)
(don't want to give up this chance.)
(Among all the elders,)
(only you have the authority.)
(Can you help talk some sense into Dad?)
(If he lets me)
(become a pilot,)
(I promise to work hard to earn money)
(and pay off the family debts.)
(Aunt,)
(my fate)
(is in your hands now.)
Prepare the veggies.
We're having buns tonight.
If chives and fennel
are not ready,
who will chop them?
Aren't you afraid of all the mosquitoes?
Thanks.
You got letters today?
Is there something wrong at home?
Which home?
Li Juan,
could you lend me some money?
How much?
1,100 yuan.
I know it's a lot,
but as soon as I get paid,
I'll pay you back.
Okay.
I'm done!
Fang Wanzhi, do the dishes!
What are you yelling about?
I just asked you
to help do the dishes.
How hard can it be for you?
Just go if you want.
I'll do it!
Don't you dare wash them!
Let her do it herself!
Hey,
why are you always picking on Wanzhi?
I'm helping her, okay?
Is 5,000 yuan
a small amount?
She's just going to give it
away to a nephew she's only met twice!
If I don't stop her,
how can I claim to be her friend?
Fang Wanzhi, let me tell you!
Just do the dishes.
Don't go to the post office!
Wanzhi said
he's a good kid.
So what if he is?
They abandoned
her when she was little!
None of those poor relatives
deserve her kindness!
It's her family business.
Just stay out of it.
We're family.
We're best friends.
Unless she refuses to
take me as her friend,
then I'll stay out of it.
Also,
I'll say this plainly.
He said he'd be a soldier?
I think he's just lying.
They're teaming up to
cheat her out of money!
Come on, Qian.
We can't think
the worst of people.
You're an idiot.
Just go away
and shut your mouth.
Fang Wanzhi, let me ask you.
You've been in Shenzhen for so long.
Have you saved up 5,000 yuan?
No.
Did you earn every penny
easily?
No.
So why are you giving
away such a big sum?
You even had to borrow from Li Juan!
In that family,
the only one I trust is Yang Hui.
Although he's my nephew,
he's only two years younger than me.
He's an honest
and upright man.
He meant every word in this letter.
5,000 yuan
is hard for me to earn
right now,
but I still want to help him out.
After all,
his mother is my
big sister.
When I was abandoned,
she went to the county to find me.
And her illness
was probably because of me.
I really...
His handwriting is good,
almost as good as Mr. Zhou's.
Wanzhi,
I believe him too.
I'll chip in 200 yuan.
No need to pay me back.
What are you doing?
Why are you chipping in now?
Your nephew's joining the Air Force!
Back in my hometown,
the whole village would chip in!
Take it!
You two idiots. I'm out!
- Take it.
- Li Juan,
I really appreciate
you lending me money.
But I really can't take this.
Thank you.
You have to take it.
- Fang Wanzhi!
- No!
Take it!
Sir!
Nice to meet you!
Sir,
greetings!
Hello, nice to see you!
Yang Hui is a good boy.
You've raised him well.
Well done.
Mom,
no matter what happens,
don't panic.
Don't get carried away.
Dad,
take care.
The new house is built,
and there's no debt.
So there's
nothing else to
trouble you and Mom.
You can go to the town hospital
and treat your leg.
It's not that bad.
It may be curable.
Just go with them.
Everything's fine here.
Don't worry.
Alright, off you go.
Thank you, sir!
Sir.
Thank you all!
I'm leaving now!
What a good kid!
He's all yours now.
Rest assured.
Xiaoju?
What took you so long?
He's already gone.
Wow, my brother-in-law is something.
He forced our little sister
to build you a new house.
It looks so nice.
He Xiaoju,
how can you say that?
Your sister and I
worked so hard,
pinching every penny for it.
But you paid off
all those debts, didn't you?
Otherwise, how could you have
let Yang Hui go?
Xiaoju,
you've got it wrong.
Our family's debts are far
from paid off.
Xiaoqin,
you're a fool.
You don't know this.
He's been lying to you this whole time!
He Xiaoju,
what are you saying?
What am I saying?
Fang Wanzhi is
our little sister.
But you forced her
to pay your debts.
Did you tell Xiaoqin?
Did he tell you?
Wanzhi...
Wanzhi sent us money?
Don't listen to that nonsense.
See?
He doesn't dare to admit it!
Yang Sanjin!
Tell the truth!
How did you pay them?
Say it to
Xiaoqin's face!
Say it!
Go on!
The hell I will!
What are you doing?
You cheated Wanzhi out of money,
and now you want to silence me?
He Xiaoju,
if you keep talking
and make her sick again,
I'll never spare you!
What's going on?
What? Get out of my way!
Stop it
Yang Sanjin, you hit my sister?
(Support Admin Watch on kissasia.cam or kisskh.org)
You hit her right after Yang Hui left?
You bastard!
Ugh! Beat me if you dare!
I'll beat you!
Yang Sanjin's going crazy!
Come look!
He's beating people!
Wanzhi
paid our debts...
Don't overthink it.
I didn't.
I didn't...
Wanzhi has had it hard
since she was little.
How could you cheat her out of money?
Stop building the house!
Stop it!
Yang Hui's not going!
He can't go!
Come on!
Let's go inside!
5,000 yuan!
We can't let Yang Sanjin keep it all.
Whoever receives the
money gets the money.
It wasn't sent to you.
What does it concern you?
Although it was Yang Hui
who wrote to her
and asked for the money,
it's still her money
for the entire family.
The 3,000 yuan last
time was split fairly,
1,000 yuan each.
You need to be fair this time as well.
Let us split it
equally.
His aunt is just a student.
Where did she get that much money?
She's a student,
but her family's rich!
Her dad's the mayor!
He has loads of money!
That's true.
Yeah!
Yang Sanjin cleared all his debts.
Someone also saw
Yang Hui sending letters.
It all makes sense.
Yang Sanjin shouldn't have done that.
I'll also ask Zhao Kai
to write and ask for
5,000 yuan for us.
Perhaps we can
get you some money as well.
It's 5,000 yuan!
Sir,
even I feel bad for you!
My mother-in-law passed away.
To be honest,
living alone must be hard for you.
With this money,
you may get someone
to set you up with a young girl.
You bastard!
Don't talk nonsense!
Please stop!
Get out of here!
I'm looking out for you!
Get out!
Don't bluff me!
Sir,
if you don't want it,
fine.
Just...
Just don't be so mad.
Out!
You're Wang Jia, right?
You're Wanzhi's
best friend, yes?
So you two called
for Wanzhi?
Last time her brother-in-law came,
he was allowed to come in.
Why can't we come in this time?
She's Fang Wanzhi's real sister.
You're from Shenxian Peak?
Yes.
Wanzhi told her
about us, I see.
Where's Wanzhi?
She hasn't been here for a long time.
She dropped out half a year ago.
She did?
Did her father
get her a great job?
Where does she work?
I can't tell you.
Don't write any more letters.
She's not here.
If you call me again,
I won't come meet you either.
Wanzhi told me not to.
I brought dried sweet
potatoes for her!
Hey...
Why did she drop out?
What job is so good
that she'd quit college?
It must be nice having a mayor dad.
My daughter
is working gig jobs,
and I wonder where she is.
It's all because you're useless!
You begged Wanzhi
for the clinic in our village.
Why didn't you do it for our child?
I...
No.
Let's go see the mayor.
Will he meet us?
Why wouldn't he?
We're his relatives.
And I brought him
dried sweet potatoes.
How could he not see us?
Juan?
Juan!
Get the laundry powder from
my bed, will you?
The new one, please!
Not this one.
I want the one I just bought.
Just take what I give you.
Why are you so picky?
So high-maintenance. Fine, don't use it.
Leave it.
Wanzhi isn't like you.
Wanzhi smells good naturally.
Juan,
is Mr. Zhou
back yet?
Yes.
Why didn't
you go find him?
What are you saying?
What?
His mission is over.
And he's leaving soon.
If you don't
settle things with him now,
what if someone else
snatches him up?
Mr. Zhou isn't
like that.
Besides,
we're not married yet.
I can't make such a mistake.
What mistake?
That's old-fashioned of you.
Wanzhi, you talk to her.
I think
no matter the era,
everyone has
their own principles to stick to.
I actually
admire Mr. Zhou.
But
Li Juan isn't a fool either.
Fang Wanzhi,
what's that supposed to mean?
I overheard you ask Liu
for leave.
Do you dare say you're not
meeting Mr. Zhou tomorrow morning?
Tomorrow morning?
There will be no one else in the dorm.
You...
Hao Qianqian! I swear I'll...
- I'll hit you!
- You're in a huff!
You asked for this!
What are you doing?
Mr. Zhou and I
are going to donate blood
tomorrow morning.
What?
Haven't you noticed
all those vans on the street lately?
The blood donation buses?
Yes.
Mr. Zhou said
Shenzhen
recently passed a
voluntary blood donation regulation.
We may not
be local residents,
but
we work here.
And we met here.
So
he wants to donate blood with me
here in Shenzhen for our first time
as a memory.
Can't you do something else
instead?
Blood is precious.
Wanzhi?
What's wrong?
I recall my mom,
my foster mom,
Principal Fang.
She told me when I was little
that patients often need
blood transfusions,
but there's none in the bank,
and they lose their lives
because of it.
Later, many villagers
even sold blood for a living.
When I was going through her things,
I found
she had 19 blood donation records.
Grandma Yu said there were more
that weren't recorded.
No wonder she passed away so young.
Blood donation doesn't
directly harm your health.
Li Juan,
you'll be a military wife.
What you and Mr. Zhou are doing
is an honorable thing.
I support you.
Listen to Wanzhi.
Now I feel proud too.
What's wrong? Not feeling well?
No.
Nervous about donating blood?
But you seem
really tired.
We had mice in the dorm last night.
Qian was screaming and crying.
I barely slept.
Ah, mice!
Over there!
There! Quick!
Get out! Out!
Close the door...
I'm exhausted.
I thought you'd be weak
after donating blood.
But seeing you
carry trays just now,
I think you're fine.
Did Mr. Zhou
buy you food on your way back?
No.
On the way back,
I rested my head on his shoulder
and felt better.
I envy you.
I want
a guy's shoulder to lean on too.
Let me.
There's a little friend in here.
It's a cat!
Here.
Where did you get it?
It's from Mr. Zhou.
He said it's good at catching mice.
No one's looking after it
when they leave the site.
So fluffy! So cute!
What's its name?
Mr. Zhou said
they haven't named it yet.
They were
all guys, so they didn't
care about the name.
But
it's with us now.
I think
we should give it a name.
It's a stray cat. Why should we name it?
It should be tough.
Mice on the site are huge.
It has to be tough to catch them.
Li Juan's right.
The strong survive.
Just like the three of us,
we weren't tough at first,
but look at us now.
You think you're tough?
I might not look tough enough,
but I've been tough
inside for a while.
From the day I decided
to come to Shenzhen,
I told myself:
Fang Wanzhi,
you have to make something of yourself.
Right?
It understands me.
Look how cute it is.
Let's name it.
How about...
Little White?
Oh, my god,
that's so tacky.
Wanzhi, you're educated.
You name it.
Just now,
what did you say at the door?
What did I say at the door?
You said...
There's a little friend inside.
That's a perfect name.
Little Friend...
When you leave home,
all you need are friends.
Okay, fine.
Let's call it that.
I agree too.
From now on,
your name is Little Friend.
Little Friend. Little Friend.
Here.
Sorry,
we're late.
You're not.
We still have ten minutes
until we leave.
She insisted on buying you fruits.
We couldn't find a stall anywhere.
I'm so exhausted.
Guys!
Come on!
Hurry up!
It's so heavy.
Pass them out!
Alright!
You go talk to Captain Zhou.
This is for you.
Say something to the soldiers.
Like what?
Whatever you want.
Wanzhi,
I've never spoken in front of so
many people.
What do I do?
They're all Captain Zhou's men.
No need to be nervous.
I don't want to embarrass him.
Then don't think of it as a speech.
Speak from your heart.
Say whatever comes to your mind.
Okay.
I'll try.
Um...
I still can't.
Never mind.
Then wave to them.
Ma'am!
Take care!
May you be healthy and happy!
Ma'am!
May you have a happy marriage
and start a family soon!
Juan!
Guys!
Come to my house later
and drink with Captain Zhou!
I'll make you pancakes and stew!
Thank you, ma'am! Thank you!
♪I'll walk you to the road♪
♪Your kindness I'll never forget♪
♪Farmers and folks know it well♪
♪Across mountains and
rivers, I'll miss you still♪
♪I'll walk you under the big tree♪
(Captain Zhou and his men)
(left as the song faded out.)
(This brand-new, bustling city)
(would remember the sweat these)
(builders poured out.)
(The trucks were gone from sight,)
(but Li Juan's voice still
floated in the air.)
(We were so young)
(back then.)
(We always thought fate)
(would be like Shenzhen's weather:)
(windy one minute and rainy the next,)
(but once the clouds cleared,)
(it would be bright and sunny again.)
I specially made a detour
just to show you around.
Thank you, Zhu.
My dad was being unfair
with the work assignments.
I even felt embarrassed.
Luckily, Li Juan
and Hao Qianqian were busy today,
so I could take you out.
You've been swamped lately, huh?
I'm okay.
I heard
you sent 5,000 yuan home.
You also heard about it?
We're the only young
people in the cafeteria.
I know everything.
Look...
if you need money, I have some.
You don't have to date me.
It's fine if you just
borrow some.
We're coworkers.
In a big city like Shenzhen,
it's fate that we met.
I mean it.
If you're short on cash,
just ask me.
Thank you, Zhu.
Liu!
Dad!
Mr. Hu.
Five, six, seven...
Thirty-one...
One...
Two...
What are you counting?
According to his last letter,
Shuchun has been transferred
back to his hometown.
I should be able
to get his letter tomorrow.
Look how happy you are.
By the way,
when he's settled,
will he come pick you up?
No.
But
in his last letter,
he talked about
having the wedding
during Spring Festival.
Really?
Congratulations then!
You two have to come with me.
I already told him
you'd both be my bridesmaids.
Of course!
Don't forget my gift!
Here!
Don't just think about that.
Get her a proper wedding gift.
I definitely will!
My best friend is getting married.
I'll get her a good one!
I'm not cheap.
By the way,
after you get married,
you won't come work here
anymore, will you?
We haven't decided that yet.
But we made a deal.
It can't be changed.
If you find a good job
in his hometown,
you have to take me with you.
They pay less inland.
That doesn't matter.
If I could marry someone
as good as Mr. Zhou,
I'd work for nothing.
Hao Qianqian,
can you be serious for once?
I am being serious!
Hao Qianqian!
- Stop it!
- Li Juan!
Li Juan!
Um...
Mr. Hu is here for you.
Mr. Hu, you
wanted to see me?
Li Juan,
you are
Zhou Shuchun's fiancée, right?
Yes.
I've long heard
you're a capable person.
I...
Sir.
I was once a soldier too.
Over ten years ago,
our engineering corps
was decommissioned here in Shenzhen.
I've been in construction
ever since.
Two years ago,
I met
Captain Zhou when he was here
on a mission.
We...
We bonded instantly.
I...
I really don't know
how to say this.
Xu.
Li Juan,
you must
stay calm.
What happened
to Captain Zhou?
Zhou Shuchun
was caught in a mountain landslide
on the day he transferred.
To save others,
he... lost his life.
Juan! Juan!
Li Juan! Li Juan!
Liu,
I can't let Li Juan
go by herself.
She's so young,
and she's been hit this hard.
If something happens to her on the way,
how could we face Captain Zhou?
Maybe
Fang can go with her.
The college girl who can write?
Good.
I remember her name is Fang Wanzhi.
Good choice.
Liu!
Got the tickets?
Take good care of Juan.
I was going to tell you.
If I'm going with Li Juan,
what about the cafeteria?
Don't worry.
The company's sending temp help.
Give this to Juan.
What's this?
A wedding gift from me and Zhu.
It's 1,000 yuan.
I can't bear to go see her.
I'm afraid...
I can't take it.
But I can't...
decide for Li Juan.
You can.
You're best friends.
Captain Zhou used
to drink and chat
with me.
He was a good man.
Juan has such bad luck.
This is what I want for her.
Take it.
I... I thank you on Li Juan's behalf.
My condolences.
Hug!
Hug...
Fang,
according to local customs,
after the memorial service,
Shuchun's body
will be cremated.
If Li Juan
has any requests,
she can let us know.
We'll do everything we can.
I have no requests at all.
Captain Zhou! Captain Zhou!
Kids,
let's send Captain Zhou
off on his final journey.
Captain Zhou!
They were
all saved by Shuchun
from the landslide.
We're so sorry!
Captain Zhou!
An old lady's life like mine
isn't worth much,
but a great captain
like you passed away because of me...
Please don't say that.
Seeing you safe and sound
is all Captain Zhou would want.
Get up.
Child,
get up.
Let me feel you.
Come on.
Look at you,
so pretty and elegant.
Shuchun was right about you.
But he didn't get to
enjoy life with you.
Mom,
please come to Shenzhen with me.
I'll take care of you from now on.
You...
What did you just call me?
Say it again.
Mom!
This...
is the money Shuchun sent me
all these years.
I saved it all.
I plan to give it to my daughter-in-law
when she calls me Mom.
Take it.
Mom,
I can't take it.
If you don't take it,
you don't accept me as your mom.
No...
You just called me Mom.
You must take it. Go on.
Mom...
Mom!